Write queueing section - Numeric results and timings (#14)
11michalis11/Thesis: chapters/03_queueing_model/05_numeric_results_and_timings/main.tex

\subsection{Numeric results and timings}\label{sec:truncation_effect}

> % \graphicspath{{chapters/03_queueing_model/img/numeric_results_and_timings/}}

Author: Forgot to remove this. It was part of one of my attempts to compile the pdf 😄

\subsubsection{Markov chain waiting time approaches comparison}
\label{sec:waiting_time_approach_comparison}

In Section \ref{sec:waiting_time} three different approaches for calculating
the waiting time using the Markov chain model have been introduces.
The three approaches are the recursive approach, the direct approach and
the closed form approach.
In this section the three approaches are compared in terms of accuracy and
computation time.

In terms of accuracy the three approaches get close to identical results.
Figures~\ref{fig:waiting_time_accuracy_over_N} and
\ref{fig:waiting_time_accuracy_over_M} show the differences of the three
approaches for different values of \(N\) and \(M\).

> \begin{figure}[H]

Author: ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/20097997/196000595-e38d4805-5012-4c66-b8bc-693ba0c58979.png)

    \caption{Waiting times of the three waiting time approaches for different
    values of \(M\).}
    \label{fig:waiting_time_accuracy_over_M}
\end{figure}

Since the results of the three approaches are almost identical, the computation
time of the three approaches is the main factor that determines which
approach will be used.
Figures~\ref{fig:waiting_time_algorithm_duration_over_N}, 
\ref{fig:waiting_time_algorithm_duration_over_M} and 
\ref{fig:waiting_time_algorithm_duration_over_N_and_M} show the computation
time needed to calculate the waiting time for different values of \(N\) and
\(M\).

\begin{figure}[H]
    \includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{chapters/03_queueing_model/img/numeric_results_and_timings/waiting_time_formulas_comparison/algorithm_duration_over_N.pdf}
    \caption{Duration of the three waiting time approaches for different values
    of \(N\).}
    \label{fig:waiting_time_algorithm_duration_over_N}
\end{figure}

\begin{figure}[H]
    \includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{chapters/03_queueing_model/img/numeric_results_and_timings/waiting_time_formulas_comparison/algorithm_duration_over_M.pdf}

>     \caption{Duration of the three waiting time approaches for different values

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    \caption{Computation time of the three waiting time approaches for different values
```

    of \(M\).}
    \label{fig:waiting_time_algorithm_duration_over_M}
\end{figure}

\begin{figure}[H]
    \includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{chapters/03_queueing_model/img/numeric_results_and_timings/waiting_time_formulas_comparison/algorithm_duration_over_N_and_M.pdf}
    \caption{Duration of the three waiting time approaches for different values
    of \(N\) and \(M\).}
    \label{fig:waiting_time_algorithm_duration_over_N_and_M}
\end{figure}

The direct approach is the slowest approach, which makes sense since it requires
solving a system of linear equations.
The recursive approach and the closed form approach give similar durations,
although the recursive approach seems to be more linear in nature than the
closed form method. 

> \subsubsection{Markov chain - Simulation comparison of steady state probabilities}

Reviewer: Could we smooth out the variation in these plots? Violin plots over the repetitions perhaps?

> \subsubsection{Markov chain - Simulation comparison of steady state probabilities}

Author: I'm confused. You mean on the previous section?

> \subsubsection{Markov chain - Simulation comparison of steady state probabilities}

Author: These ones right?

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/20097997/195650437-3ec8d423-d5c0-4827-9d8c-35adb90f4f71.png)

> \subsubsection{Markov chain - Simulation comparison of steady state probabilities}

Author: Yes these ones

    \label{fig:comparison_steady_state_probabilities_1}
\end{figure}

\begin{figure}[H]
    \includegraphics[width=\textwidth, trim=200 60 170 60, clip]{chapters/03_queueing_model/img/numeric_results_and_timings/steady_state_probabilities/main_3.pdf}
    \caption{\(\mu = 0.09\)}
    \label{fig:comparison_steady_state_probabilities_2}
\end{figure}

\begin{figure}[H]
    \includegraphics[width=\textwidth, trim=200 60 170 60, clip]{chapters/03_queueing_model/img/numeric_results_and_timings/steady_state_probabilities/main_5.pdf}
    \caption{\(\mu = 0.15\)}
    \label{fig:comparison_steady_state_probabilities_3}
\end{figure}

\begin{figure}[H]
    \includegraphics[width=\textwidth, trim=200 60 170 60, clip]{chapters/03_queueing_model/img/numeric_results_and_timings/steady_state_probabilities/main_7.pdf}
    \caption{\(\mu = 0.21\)}
    \label{fig:comparison_steady_state_probabilities_4}
\end{figure}

\begin{figure}[H]
    \includegraphics[width=\textwidth, trim=200 60 170 60, clip]{chapters/03_queueing_model/img/numeric_results_and_timings/steady_state_probabilities/main_9.pdf}
    \caption{\(\mu = 0.27\)}
    \label{fig:comparison_steady_state_probabilities_5}

> \end{figure}

Reviewer: I wonder if these plots could appear as a grid? Looks a bit strange with the layout.

Author: Is something like this better?

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/20097997/195833719-ad4dbad1-c4ac-42db-a87a-99f21a493e4c.png)

Author: Leave the gridlines in. Just plot them in a single line

Author: This is what it looks like now 👍 

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/20097997/196000546-e8fac8b5-bfb7-41c8-9b90-1d763842e998.png)

Figure~\ref{fig:comparison_steady_state_probabilities_1} has the smallest
value of \(\mu = 0.03\).
It can be seen that for both the Markov chain and the simulation the steady
state probabilities are close to zero for most states apart from the
states close to when the system is full.
That is because the arrival rate of individuals is much lower than the service
rate of individuals even with 5 servers.
Note here that because the model is immediately flooded from the beginning, the
simulation has no time to explore the state space, so the heatmap looks like
it is missing some of its pieces.
Additionally, it is interesting to note that as we increase the value of \(\mu\)
in Figures~\ref{fig:comparison_steady_state_probabilities_2} -
\ref{fig:comparison_steady_state_probabilities_5} smaller states in the model
have a higher value since individuals now exit the system faster.
Also, note that for all values of \(\mu\) the difference between the Markov
chain approach and the simulation is small.

> \subsubsection{Simulation VS Markov chain durations}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
\subsubsection{Computation time of Simulation compared to Markov chain }
```

> The choice of the artificial parameters \(N\) and \(M\) is an important 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The choice of the artificial truncation parameters \(N\) and \(M\) is an important 
```

decision of the model.

> In the untruncated simulation these values can be omitted by setting them to
> infinity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The simulation can be used for both the truncated and untruncated models.
```

This is not possible when obtaining the steady state probabilities of the
finite state Markov chain.

> The value of \(N\) and \(M\) can be chosen arbitrarily large, but the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The value of \(N\) and \(M\) can be chosen to be arbitrarily large so as to approximate the untruncated model, but the
```

Note that \(N\) and \(M\) have the same value throughout the table.
Simulation is ran for a runtime of \(10^4\) time units and the displayed
durations are for a single run of the simulation and similarly for 100 runs of
the simulation.
For getting the performance measures using the finite state Markov chain each
timing recorded is for the computation of the steady state probabilities and
then the corresponding performance measure.

\tiny
\begin{table}[H]
    \centering
    \begin{tabular}{c|cc|ccc}
        & \multicolumn{2}{c}{\textbf{Simulation}} & 
        \multicolumn{3}{c}{\textbf{Markov chain}} \\
        \textbf{Value of} & \textbf{Single} & \textbf{100} & 
        \textbf{Waiting} & \textbf{Blocking} & 
        \textbf{Proportion} \\
        \textbf{\textit{N} and \textit{M}} & \textbf{trial} & \textbf{trials} & 
        \textbf{formula} & \textbf{formula} & \textbf{formula} \\
        \hline
        \(10\) & 1 & 144.3 & 0.015  & 0.014  & 0.014 \\
        \hline
        \(30\) & 1 & 143.4 & 3.73   & 3.83   & 3.65 \\
        \hline
        \(50\) & 1 & 139.8 & 31.57  & 38.39  & 31.98 \\
        \hline
        \(\infty\) & 1 & 142.1 & N/A & N/A & N/A \\
    \end{tabular}

>     \caption{Relative timings of the simulation and Markov chain model}

Reviewer: Move the caption to above the table. I don't know why, apparently captions for tables are supposed to be above tables.

Section~\ref{sec:discrete_event_simulation}).

\begin{figure}[H]
    \includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{chapters/03_queueing_model/img/numeric_results_and_timings/truncation_effect/waiting/demo.pdf}
    \caption{
        Comparison of mean waiting time between values obtained from the Markov 
        chain formula, values obtained from the truncated simulation and values
        obtained from the untruncated simulation.
    }
    \label{fig:markov_vs_des_waiting_time_comparison_overall}
\end{figure}

In detail, Figure~\ref{fig:markov_vs_des_waiting_time_comparison_overall} shows
the calculated mean waiting time using the Markov chain, using a truncated 
simulation and using a simulation with infinite capacity (without the artificial
parameters \(N\) and \(M\)).
Each plot corresponds to different values of \(N\) and \(M\) and is run over 
different values of \(\lambda_2\).
The untruncated simulation values are the same at all three graphs since
the effect of truncation does not apply to it.
The waiting times generated by the truncated simulation match the ones generated 
by the Markov chains model.
Note that this comparison includes both type 1 and type 2 individuals.

> % TODO: Include type 1 and type 2 plot?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
% TODO: Include type 1 and type 2 plot.
```

(yes)

    \caption{
        Comparison of mean waiting time between values obtained from the Markov 
        chain formula, values obtained from the truncated simulation and values
        obtained from the untruncated simulation.
    }
    \label{fig:markov_vs_des_blocking_time_comparison_overall}
\end{figure}

Finally, Figure~\ref{fig:markov_vs_des_proportion_within_time_comparison_overall}
shows the overall proportion of individuals whose time in the system are within
a time target for different values of \(N\) and \(M\).
Similar to the previous figures, as \(N\) and \(M\) increase the proportion of
individuals between the simulation and the Markov chain get closer.

\begin{figure}[H]
    \includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{chapters/03_queueing_model/img/numeric_results_and_timings/truncation_effect/proportion/demo.pdf}
    \caption{
        Comparison of mean waiting time between values obtained from the Markov 
        chain formula, values obtained from the truncated simulation and values
        obtained from the untruncated simulation.
    }
    \label{fig:markov_vs_des_proportion_within_time_comparison_overall}
\end{figure}

> 

Reviewer: Can you add a paragraph/sentence here concluding with values used throughout the rest of the work?

Author: I don't fully understand. What do you mean by values? Parameter values?

Author: Add a sentence to reflect on the choice of the artificial values for the truncation effect
